---
title: 
date: 2017-05-14T10:00:00+00:00
author: nhpatt
layout: post
guid: http://nhpatt.com/meltdown
permalink: /meltdown/
image: meltdown.jpg
categories:
  - agile
  - events
  - agilespain
---

Last Saturday I had a small meltdown, I missed the train back home by just 5 minutes and I snapped off a little via twitter. 

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">I got up at 6:30, missed my niece’s christening &amp; my nephew’s birthday and spent 50 euros to be at the meeting today… definitely couch day</p>&mdash; Javier Gamarra (@nhpatt) <a href="https://twitter.com/nhpatt/status/860905486228631552">May 6, 2017</a></blockquote>
<script async src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

Obviously, it was all my fault... I **definitely should host/attend way fewer meetups and conferences**. In those 2 weeks I went to Paris to a Liferay conference, to gave a badly prepared talk (due to previous compromises),
Victor hosted one event on Thursday and I returned early from Paris to host another event (CrossDevelopment) on Saturday. I had a course and the Agile Spain meetup the next week.

3 hosting compromises, one talk and one course (both outside my comfort zone). **I'm stretched way too thin**. To redouble in my mistakes, the previous week I had a course in Sevilla, the jsday.es conference and 2 hosting compromises, plus 2 courses and 2 hosting compromises this week.

But completely missing the point and the lesson I should learn, **I wasn't frustrated because of having way too many events, I was frustrated because, in my mind, I could have prevented everything...**

* If I had reviewed the calendar I wouldn't have moved the Agile Spain meetup and instead I would have canceled/moved the CrossDevelopment one that forced me to return early from Paris (and embroil my wife's calendar too) and I could have stayed more time in Paris and attend the family events.
* If I hadn't attended the Agile Spain meetup, I could have prepared the budgets or connected via hangout and attend all the family events.
* If I had just spoken in the Agile Spain meetup and told the attendees that I should take the 18:00 train to attend a birthday (after missing a christening) I could have gone to my nephew's birthday  

Instead, I didn't review the calendar nor I said anything in the meetup...

Again **missing the point** with those *ifs*. I have to understand that **I can't do all the things I would like to do**. 

It's rather easy to look back and try to fit everything in your agenda once a week has passed. It's impossible to fit everything before. **I don't have any slack time**.

I watched Henrik Kniberg's talk, [slack](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k8DTUYfUOa0), some months ago but I resist to believe it. 
I **do** know that I can't sustain this rhythm much more (luckily after the [lechazoconf](https://lechazoconf.com) I don't have anything else planned). 

If I don't set hard numeric limits (like hosting 3 events a month) I am not going to change, 
I need numbers to take compromises seriously. But I resist setting hard limits because I know that if I set one I'm going to try to follow it and internally I don't want to change.

So much fun... what should I do?

Image by [halfrain](https://www.flickr.com/photos/halfrain/5210931199)