---
title: 
date: 2017-05-21T10:00:00+00:00
author: nhpatt
layout: post
guid: http://nhpatt.com/JSDayES
permalink: /JSDayES/
image: JSDayES.jpg
categories:
  - events
  - javascript
  - jsdayes
---

Last week I attended the [JSDayES](http://2017.jsday.es/), the Javascript conference held in Madrid.

There were some great talks, these are the ones I loved:

## [Redux a través de la música](http://2017.jsday.es/#5740078466859008/106094003)

Redux + MIDI + passion + great explanation. Probably the best talk of the event, [Elena Torró](https://twitter.com/eletorro) is an amazing speaker and she explained the topic of the talk 
perfectly.

## [the web these days](http://2017.jsday.es/#5740078466859008/97864001)

The last keynote, by @substack was simply amazing. It didn't have any real purpose and I don't agree with his views about the need for a peer to peer internet. 

But **watching him code live was humbling**, I don't know many programmers with that vim proficiency or knowledge of distributed communication, webgl... his speed was simply incredible. 
 Watch out the video when it is available.

## [Reactive Animations with RxJS](http://2017.jsday.es/#5740078466859008/97854002)

Amazing demos of RxJS with CSS animation. I hoped the talk would explain more in depth how to craft those animations and the idea behind them but the speaker only introduced the basics of Rx. 

It deserves a spot here because of the complexity of the demos. 

## [Construyendo un Rasterizador 3D con iluminacion dinámica en JS vanilla en 10 minutos](http://2017.jsday.es/#5642674782601216/105114001)

A lightning talk with a great end result, I would have loved more explanation and code... the demo was great and I left with the desire of trying those technologies and learning how to render in 3D.

## [Node y V8 Internals](http://2017.jsday.es/#5740078466859008/97064001)

I didn't like the structure of the talk and I wanted a more organized explanation but it was pretty clear that @hyperandroid really knows his stuff. 
It pointed out how little I know of the internals of node or v8, great talk.


## Organization

A big shoot out to the organizers, I know **how hard is and how much time it takes to prepare** all those details and tasks that the attendees don't see.

I hate the comments complaining about the language or the cost of the event. Those people don't know how much a catering cost or how hard and expensive is to bring people like @substack here to rock us with an amazing keynote.

I really like the focus on international speakers, I think that having one track just for them is a great idea and improves the community and force us to stop living in a bubble.

## Things I didn't like

I just wanted to point out 2 things I didn't like:

* I know that the quality of the talks is going to vary a lot, that's expected. What I don't like is speaker friends voting with 5 stars talks that were simply average or bad. 
There was even one talk with 7 (!) votes before the talk.
* Blatant marketing, specially on some talks of the first day (the weakest by far). It was obvious. Don't do it.

## Next year

I have to plan the talks in advance and check the topics or sit on the back and change rooms to avoid bad talks but I'll definitely go next year!

I saw really good talks, I think that the quality was above the average of other conferences, see you in the next edition :)


