---
title: Tarugo3
date: 2018-09-23T10:00:00+00:00
author: nhpatt
layout: post
guid: http://nhpatt.com/tarugo3
permalink: /tarugo3/
image: tarugo3.jpg
categories:
  - events
---

I've organized several conferences, as many of you already know. And these are the things that the 
[tarugoconf](https://tarugoconf.com) executes way better than the rest (basically the things I want to copy):

* **Promoting the sponsors**. Although I think it can improve, even more, the [#tarugo3](https://twitter.com/hashtag/tarugo3) promotes the sponsors more and better
than the rest of the conferences. In this edition, giving sponsors collectible card game envelops was **genius**. Or cakes and cookies with the logos. Great ideas. 
* **Talk quality**: **All that vetting shows**. This year all the talks were top-notch. Good work reviewing :) I think that this one it's hard to replicate, it's not the same requesting the slides 1 month
in advance if you are David Bonilla or Javier Gamarra.
* **Crazy, outlandish, things**. Basically innovating. Some are really good: seeing WarGames, challenges to donate money to charity
and do networking or the card game this year were AWESOME. Others, not so much (like last year conference badge).
* **Good starting presentation**. The first "talk" by David Bonilla is always a show, nothing compared with the disorganized 
mess usually found in other conferences.
* **Tight-knit community**. Or the feeling of belonging to an exclusive club. This has several drawbacks but the experience
of going to a conference where you know everybody is interesting.
* **Good food**. This set it apart from many, many, conferences.

PD: another, not so technical, topic :( :P